When I started CS50x, it was one of the most challenging courses I have taken and I loved that it pushed me harder, out of my comfort zone to seek the the necessary knowledge I needed to complete each problem set and lab. Now here I am, I've completed CS50W and it has been a really fun and meaningful journey. CS50W pushed me even harder to learn so many new things and tackle problems on my own. Hunting bugs was quite difficult I must say and I think there are still bugs in the projects I did but I think I did a good job and tried my best on each project. 

Distinctiveness and Complexity:
    When I started thinking about my final project, I remembered professor David Malan talking about how he built a sports website for the very first time, he talked about how he wasn't fully aware of the language he was using to write the website and figured it all out as he progressed. This inspired me to try to solve issues that I face in my regular day life. I think one of unique features of my project is that decided to a website which contains more than one app and both written in different language. My TODO list is written purely in javascript and only uses Python views in Django to be able to function together when my project is started from terminal. My Recipe storing app is written in Python and only uses Javascript for animation.

    I think having two different programming languages being used together for different apps speaks for itself about the complexity of my project. Moreover, I used multiple CSS files to be fully able to customize each page to my liking, to have it be personal and more appealing. I wanted my hardwork to be displayed through my project and I think it's rare to use many different CSS files for every page, it also makes my project standout from others. Apart from that, I wanted to add as much of what I have learned through the project as I can. I tried to use less boostrap and coded CSS myself which I think is unique as well since boostrap makes a lot of the work much easier. 
    
    In addition, I implemented the random recipe function which is quite interesting and makes the app light-hearted and much more fun.


My Project:
    The static folder in my project is essential for the proper functioning of my app. It contains multiple css files for different html pages and each file has different properties in order to have the app be complex, comprehensive and detailed. I wanted my app to be professional and represent my interest in coding as well. The .svg files are appropriately named and are used to have an animated background of the named pages. It also helped me add a personalized touch to my project. Index.js is essential for my TODO app since it contains all the javascript code for it to function. I used the localstorage property in Javascript was taught in javascript lecture and it proved to be extremely helpful and useful to help me create the TODO  from scratch. I also added the delete function and button which is to delete the list and the recently added tasks.

    Moving on to my templates, the layout template I used contains navigation bar to help the user navigate through the website. The homepage is just for a nice introduction and contains links to important pages such login, register, TODO list and Recipe page. Other templates are coded appropriately along with CSS for that specific template. The ingredient, directions and description parts of each recipe is contained in the template however, it is initially hidden through CSS. It is visible when hovered upon it.

    Moving on to backend part, the urls.py contains all the useful urls for my website. The index and first page is linked to my homepage which can be used to direct the user to TODO list, Recipe app or login/register pages. The admins.py was used to register my models so that it can be edited through Django superuser admins. My models.py is not very complex however, it is enough to store all the important data needed. The owner part in my models.py is linked to User model since the owner would be the one who created the recipe. 

    Views.py starts with basic functions such as homepage and todo list. The homepage does not really have any complexity to it since it's supposed to be an introduction, it links to other parts of the website. The todo list is purely javascript based so it doesn't have much code either. Both functions redirect you to the login page if you're not logged in. The recipe function gets 'recipe' from models and then sends it to html page. The 'get_random' function was much interesting though. The 'item' is retrieved from the database, I used the orderby property to order the titles and '.distinct'property helps me to not send the same titles to the html template multiple times. The create function is used to create and store new recipes and the frontend sends data to backend through appropriate names in html and then data is saved in the database using Django properties.

    The login and register functions are quite easy to comprehend. The recieve data from the frontend and are able to save the data in the model. If the user successfully logs in, they directed to the homepage which is the starting page of my website. The logout function when clicked redirects the user back to login page. 

It was very interesting to work on this project, it helped learn many new things along with disocovering new libraries and different ways to implement same functions. CS50W was a great journey. I enjoyed it thoroughly.